README.md, before:

# dotfiles
## Color Support
Terminals that support 256 colors can use "palette" (.bash\_functions) to print
out a color-palette.
- You can pass in indices from this palette to create\_prompt.
- If the terminal emulator doesn't support 256 colors, it falls back to sane
  defaults.
- The Vim integrated terminal is a good example here; it sets TERM=xterm for
  some reason.

## iTerm2/Tmux integration 
iTerm2 is integrated with tmux via control mode (man tmux; tmux -CC).
- Eternal Terminal (et) supports tmux control mode.
- Mosh doesn't.

## Language & Locale
tldr; Just override locale to "en\_US.UTF-8"
- The way a locale is chosen in Mac OS is very simplistic;
  - ll\_CC.encoding; where ll=chosen language, CC=country
    - `defaults read -g AppleLocale`
    - `defaults read -g AppleLanguages`
  - Arbitrary combos of language & country (like ja\_US.UTF-8) don't exist
- On Linux, `LANG=ja_JP.UTF-8 man man` works as expected
  - SSH can also pass LANG/LC\_\* using SendEnv
- On Mac, unix progs always use English, seemingly ignoring locale.
   - Might be lacking some localization files; or maybe not compiled in?

##  Vim packages
- Vim 8+ has native package management, so you can just drop it in ~/.vim/
- ALE is a good package for language features.
- Ripgrep (rg) is faster than grep/ag
    - Can pipe results to QuickFix menu
- Tagbar uses tags to give an outline view of code
    - +/- to open/close a fold
    - \*/= to open/close all folds
- SemanticHighlight 
    - Color semantically 
    - Default colors are shit (include colors that disappear in dark or light
      backgrounds), override in vimrc.

## Vim tips
|command|description|
|:------|:----------|
|C-n        | Auto-complete;  opens hover menu                          |
|gf         | Open file under cursor in a new buffer (if it exists)		|
|gq         | (visual) Wrap text to textwidth                           |
|:reg       | List registers	                                    	|
|:ls        | List buffers	                                        	|
|:b foo     | Go to buffer named foo                               		|
|:close 	| Close buffer		                                        |
|:e	%<.h    | Open header file for current c/cpp file in a new buffer   |
|:sp	    | Split current buffer (horizontally)               		|
|:term	    | Open integrated terminal (horizontal)             		|
|:vert X    | Open X vertically                                         |
|:vsp   	| Vertical split current buffer                     		|
|:vert term | Open vertical terminal                            		|



### Extra commands
|command|description|
|:------|:----------|
|gd                 | Go to definition of a token (using ALE)   |
|:Tagbar            | Open file outline                         |
|:TagbarShowTag     | Show tag under cursor                     |
|:RG                | Ripgrep; show results in Quickfix menu    |
|:RG PATTERN %      | Ripgrep current file                      |
|:SemanticHighlight | Turn on Semantic highlighting             |

## Shellcheck?
The reasons for these lines are to disable warnings from static analysis.
- This comes from ALE, via "ShellCheck"
- They're a bit noisy sometimes, but makes writing bash a lot easier.

# App Settings
## iTerm2
Profiles saved as JSON and can be imported. Some important settings are for Triggers, colors, status bar, etc.
## Karabiner Elements
Profiles saved as JSON. Default path is `~/.config/karabiner/karabiner.json`
Things like:
- Caps-lock -> Esc (tap) & Control (hold)
- Left shift -> Option/Meta

Commit message:

Add install script, update readme, abandon iterm plist for now

README.md, after:

# dotfiles
## Color Support
Terminals that support 256 colors can use "palette" (.bash\_functions) to print
out a color-palette.
- You can pass in indices from this palette to create\_prompt.
- If the terminal emulator doesn't support 256 colors, it falls back to sane
  defaults.
- The Vim integrated terminal is a good example here; it sets TERM=xterm for
  some reason.

## iTerm2/Tmux integration 
iTerm2 is integrated with tmux via control mode (man tmux; tmux -CC).
- Eternal Terminal (et) supports tmux control mode.
- Mosh doesn't.

## Language & Locale
tldr; Just override locale to "en\_US.UTF-8"
- The way a locale is chosen in Mac OS is very simplistic;
  - ll\_CC.encoding; where ll=chosen language, CC=country
    - `defaults read -g AppleLocale`
    - `defaults read -g AppleLanguages`
  - Arbitrary combos of language & country (like ja\_US.UTF-8) don't exist
- On Linux, `LANG=ja_JP.UTF-8 man man` works as expected
  - SSH can also pass LANG/LC\_\* using SendEnv
- On Mac, unix progs always use English, seemingly ignoring locale.
   - Might be lacking some localization files; or maybe not compiled in?

##  Vim packages
- Vim 8+ has native package management, so you can just drop it in ~/.vim/
- ALE is a good package for language features.
- Ripgrep (rg) is faster than grep/ag
    - Can pipe results to QuickFix menu
- Tagbar uses tags to give an outline view of code
    - +/- to open/close a fold
    - \*/= to open/close all folds
- SemanticHighlight 
    - Color semantically 
    - Default colors are shit (include colors that disappear in dark or light
      backgrounds), override in vimrc.

## Vim tips
|command|description|
|:------|:----------|
|C-n        | Auto-complete;  opens hover menu                          |
|gf         | Open file under cursor in a new buffer (if it exists)		|
|gq         | (visual) Wrap text to textwidth                           |
|:reg       | List registers	                                    	|
|:ls        | List buffers	                                        	|
|:b foo     | Go to buffer named foo                               		|
|:close 	| Close buffer		                                        |
|:e	%<.h    | Open header file for current c/cpp file in a new buffer   |
|:sp	    | Split current buffer (horizontally)               		|
|:term	    | Open integrated terminal (horizontal)             		|
|:vert X    | Open X vertically                                         |
|:vsp   	| Vertical split current buffer                     		|
|:vert term | Open vertical terminal                            		|



### Extra commands
|command|description|
|:------|:----------|
|gd                 | Go to definition of a token (using ALE)   |
|:Tagbar            | Open file outline                         |
|:TagbarShowTag     | Show tag under cursor                     |
|:RG                | Ripgrep; show results in Quickfix menu    |
|:RG PATTERN %      | Ripgrep current file                      |
|:SemanticHighlight | Turn on Semantic highlighting             |

## Shellcheck?
The reasons for these lines are to disable warnings from static analysis.
- This comes from ALE, via "ShellCheck"
- They're a bit noisy sometimes, but makes writing bash a lot easier.

# App Settings
## iTerm2
Profiles are saved as JSON and can be imported. It's easier to just do this 
manually via the GUI since experimenting with automation has been brittle.
Make sure to set the profile as default (starred) or the default profile 
(Default) gets loaded at start, eg. triggers, colors, status bar, etc.
# Property Lists
Maybe some day figure out how dynamic profiles work with apple's property list configs.
Seems lots of app configs are stored in plists.
Some daemon like cfprefsd would watch & overwrite these plist files.
So a plist aware tool like "defaults" cli is the way to RW multiple plist formats like XML, binary, json. Rather than modifying directly.
It should be possible to backup & restore profiles with something like...
defaults write com.googlecode.iterm2.plist PrefsCustomFolder -string "~/dotfiles/iterm2"
defaults write com.googlecode.iterm2.plist LoadPrefsFromCustomFolder -bool true
Not super clear from the docs though, doesn't seem worth digging into right now.

## Karabiner Elements
Profiles saved as JSON. Default path is `~/.config/karabiner/karabiner.json`
Things like:
- Caps-lock -> Esc (tap) & Control (hold)
- Left shift -> Option/Meta
